

Introduction

Software Management is the first MS program established in Turkey to target specialized software domain knowledge. The objectives of this program are to lead the advancement of software practice in Turkey, to disseminate the domain knowledge on principles, processes, methods and techniques required to manage the development and evolution of software systems, and to bring forth experts and scientists in this field.

Program Aims

Software has become the driving force behind most of the new military and commercial Technologies and many business renovations. The complexity as well as application areas of software systems are rapidly growing. Increasing demand for software in diverse domains and in larger sizes requires the establishment and use of sound management, design and production principles in order to develop, manage and evolve software that has the desired functionality, is reliable, cost effective and developed on time.The program targets professionals in the field. The students in the program will gain the ability to systematically define and use the knowledge on software development processes, methodologies, techniques and metrics. The program offers courses on software project management, software quality management, software acquisition management, requirements analysis, software architectures and design, software testing, human computer interaction, and software operations and maintenance. For students to gain necessary experience, design and implementation are seen as an integral part of all courses. Students are also involved in a realistic team project to integrate the knowledge and experience built up in specialized courses.

Program Structure

Software Management non-thesis master’s program consists of ten three-credit courses (four core and six elective courses), a non-credit term project and a non-credit graduate seminar course. The program requirements must be fulfilled in at most five semesters (three semesters for regular program and two semesters for deficiency program; during the deficiency program, core/elective courses can be taken.).
Program Outcome

Till the completion of the program, it is aimed that a student of Software Management program will have the following knowledge, skills and behaviors.
Knows and implements principles, processes, methods, techniques and standards necessary for software acquisition, development, management, and evolution.
Defines and employs systematically business processes in general, specifically software development processes, methods, techniques and measurements. The graduate can evaluate these processes rationally and systematically for their improvements.
Identifies problems in software system development, management and evolution; analyzes and provides solutions to them.
Follows both the academic and the industry developments and practices in software engineering, evaluates them critically.
Manages ICT, especially software engineering, projects and research projects.
Decides and applies research methods to address problems in informatics domain, especially software engineering domain. The graduate can conduct theoretical, experimental or applied research.
Systematically evaluates and distills experiences during the process of designing and developing software systems; applies them to other projects.
Produces innovative ideas and products in the field of IT applications and services.
Works effectively both independently and in multi-disciplinary teams as a team member or leader.
Pays attention to ethical values and applies them at her professional and scientific studies.
Presents the recent developments in the field and their work, by supporting with qualitative and quantitative data effectively in written and spoken English and Turkish.

Application Requirements
Application requirements for Graduate School of Informatics

Career Prospects

The graduates of Software Management M.S. program:
Work as software engineer, information system researcher, expert and consultant, system analyst, software and system project manager
Are employed by institutions who acquire, develop and maintain software systems
Are entrepreneurs who establish companies that produce innovative services and products in the software and information system domain
Pursue their careers as a scientist in any field of IT especially software engineering
Are preferred by software systems research units of organizations
Are preferred by information technology, telecommunications, defense, health, automotive, banking industries for the positions that require expertise in software engineering
Are promoted to management positions in software developing organizations due to their scientific approaches and rational, systematic evaluations.

Courses

Classes mostly start at 18:00 to facilitate attendance of the working students.

Deficiency courses (To be completed in at most 2 semesters)
SM 591 Software Management Primer I (1 credit)
SM 592 Software Management Primer II (1 credit)
Core courses (All should be taken)
SM 502 Software Management
SM 503 Object Oriented Software Development
SM 504 Team Software Project (Should be taken after SM 502 and SM 503 are taken)
SM 892 Special Studies (Non-credit, should be taken each semester after 6 courses (or 18 credits) are taken in total)
SM 590 Graduate Seminar (Non-credit, should be taken in the same term SM 589 is taken.)
SM 589 Term Project (Non-credit)

Elective Courses (At least 7 courses should be taken)

Up to 3 elective courses can be taken from other Evening Master Programs in METU to replace the courses given in this list with the approval of advisor. 
SM 501 Personal Software Process
SM 511 Software Process Improvement
SM 512 Object Oriented Programming and Data Structures
SM 514 Introduction to Software Testing
SM 515 Software Verification and Validation
SM 517 Software Metrics
SM 519 Acquisition of Software Intensive Systems
SM 521 Software Requirements Engineering
SM 522 Agile Software Development
SM 523 Software Design Patterns
SM 525 Software Product Line Management
SM 526 Secure Software Development
SM 527 Security Engineering
SM 528 Software Architecture
SM 530 Social Network Analysis
SM 547 Model Based Systems Engineering
SM 548 Computer Systems for Programmers
SM 549 IT Governance
SM 561 Introduction to Software Engineering
SM 701 Special Topics in SM: Contemporary Issues in Management
SM 702 Peopleware
 

Links

SM Courses
FAQs on Software Management MS Program
Software Management Related Links
Graduate School of Informatics-Application Criteria

Contact for Admissions
Turkish Students: Ayşe Nur Özdere Yüksel| A Block, Z-16| Tel: 0312 210 3740 | email: aozdere@metu.edu.tr
Foreign Students: Buket Barış| A-113| Tel: 0312 210 7781 | email: bbaris@metu.edu.tr
